A map is a symbolic representation of selected characteristics of a place, usually drawn on a flat surface. 3 - 12+ Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Geography. Photograph.map is a visual representation of an entire area or a part of an area, typically represented on a flat surface. The work of a map is to illustrate specific and detailed features of a particular area, most frequently used to illustrate geography.MAP- A map is a drawing of the Earth's surface or a part of it. Map can give more details than a globe. A map can show the whole world at a glance. A map can be big or small.Maps present information about the world in a simple, visual way. They teach about the world by showing sizes and shapes of countries, locations of features, and distances between places. Maps can show distributions of things over Earth, such as settlement patterns. They can show exact locations of houses and streets in a city neighborhood.

Mapmakers, called cartographers, create maps for many different purposes. Vacationers use road maps to plot routes for their trips. Meteorologists—scientists who study weather—use weather maps to prepare forecasts. City planners decide where to put hospitals and parks with the help of maps that show land features and how the land is currently being used.

Some common features of maps include scale, symbols, and grids.
The representative fraction does not have specific units. It is shown as a fraction or ratio—for example, 1/1,000,000 or 1:1,000,000. This means that any given unit of measure on the map is equal to one million of that unit on Earth. So, 1 centimeter on the map represents 1,000,000 centimeters on Earth, or 10 kilometers. One inch on the map represents 1,000,000 inches on Earth, or a little less than 16 miles.

The size of the area covered helps determine the scale of a map. A map that shows an area in great detail, such as a street map of a neighborhood, is called a large-scale map because objects on the map are relatively large. A map of a larger area, such as a continent or the world, is called a small-scale map because objects on the map are relatively small.

Today, maps are often computerized. Many computerized maps allow the viewer to zoom in and out, changing the scale of the map. A person may begin by looking at the map of an entire city that only shows major roads and then zoom in so that every street in a neighborhood is visible.
Cartographers use symbols to represent geographic features. For example, black dots represent cities, circled stars represent capital cities, and different sorts of lines represent boundaries, roads, highways, and rivers. Colors are often used as symbols. Green is often used for forests, tan for deserts, and blue for water. A map usually has a legend, or key, that gives the scale of the map and explains what the various symbols represent.

Some maps show relief, or changes in elevation. A common way to show relief is contour lines, also called topographic lines. These are lines that connect points that have equal elevation. If a map shows a large enough area, contour lines form circles.

A group of contour line circles inside one another indicates a change in elevation. As elevation increases, these contour line circles indicate a hill. As elevation decreases, contour line circles indicate a depression in the earth, such as a basin.They help you travel from one location to another. They help you organize information. They help you figure out where you are and how to get where you want to go. There are many types of maps.map is a symbolic depiction emphasizing relationships between elements of some space, such as objects, regions, or themesglobe is a three-dimensional sphere while a map is two-dimensional. The globe represents the whole earth, whereas a map may represent the whole earth or just a part of it. A globe can be used to get a broad-level picture of the world while maps provide more specific information about different places.From all the world map projections, this is the one most of us are used to see. It was created by Gerardus Mercator, a cartographer and maker of globes from Flanders who lived in the 16th century.There are two main types of maps - political maps and physical maps. Physical maps show the shape of the land - hills, lakes, forests, the coast and so on. Political maps show how the land is used by people - counties, provinces, countries, town boundaries, etc.Show kids different kinds of maps. Teach them the parts of a map- symbols, water, parks, roads, map key, etc. Show them how to look at and draw a birds eye view.
...
This week's map themed activities:
Build a map of your room. ... 
Go on a treasure hunt (using the map of your room)
Follow the leader adventure. ... 
Build your own town.Tips to Help Students Build Mapping Skills
Get Rid of the Compass. Compasses and GPS are extremely helpful and everyone should learn to use them. ... 
Start with Small Maps. Whatever is taught, it's always best to start small. ... 
Teach them the Symbols. ... 
Get Them Outside.When students learn map skills, they are learning to visualize and interpret data. It is no longer just data and numbers, but instead something they can interact with and utilize.Direction is the particular way you have to go to get from one place to another. Examples of directions include north, south, east, and west. Directly up on a map is usually north; down is usually south; to the right is usually east; and to the left is usually West.
